---
layout: news_item
title: Why to use Go language in biodiversity informatics?
date: 2019-12-11 12:52:20
author: dimus
product: gnfinder
version: 0.9.1
categories: gnfinder release
comments: true
---

I started to solve biodiversity informatics problems using language Go,
originally developed by Google. And the more I used it the more I felt that
this language fits informatics goals of our field very well. I am going to
describe here features of Go that make is so good in biodiversity informatics
environments.

## Killer feature: readability

Biodiversity informatics is mostly run in academia. In academia projects
blossom and wither depending on availability of funds. Funds often appear and
dissapear and someone has to deal with project written by someone else. Quite
often original people who wrote a project leave, or become PIs and are not able
to contibute to the code anymore. New students and postdocs come in their
place and are asked to continue maitanance and development of old applications.

Therefore ability to understand the code written by another person is crusial
for longevity of the projects. Go is quite unique in its minimalism. The
language semantic constructs had been carefully selected not to overlap, as a
result the programming style of novice and experienced programmers does not
differ that much. It is great for supporting projects written by others, and
for learning from Go code itself how to solve common problems.

I do not know any other programming language that is so easy to read and
understand.

## Go is easy to learn

Minimalistic approach to the language design makes it possible to learn Go with
5-10 times less effort than other languages. Specification of the language is
tiny and just going through [A tour of Go](https://tour.golang.org/welcome/1)
is enough to be productive after a few hours.

After learning Go syntax
